Insourcing is doing project with internal resources,
while outsourcing is getting it done outside your company.
When should you insource?
When it is crucial that intellectual property, or IP,
should remain in-house, when understanding of culture and project is required,
when the work needed to be done aligns with your core business activities,
and when a project deals with sensitive enterprise information,
such as security data.
You should outsource when a variety of skills are needed to complete the project.
Outsourcing gives you access to larger talent pool.
You should consider outsourcing when the work does not
fall into the category of your core business functions.
You should consider outsourcing when you need to scale quickly.
Outsourcing sometimes can also be cost-effective.